RELAX NG to TextMate language  grammar generator
================================================

The aim of this is to automatically generate [TextMate][]
[language grammars][gram] from [RELAX NG XML Schemas][rng]. As both TextMate
grammars and RELAX NG Schemas can be written as XML, our program mainly
consists of a XSLT transformation.

Note that RELAX NG schemas can be generated from DTDs or W3C XML Schemas using
tools such as [Trang][].

Usage
-----

*Currently, XML namespace are not dealt with. You’ll have to modify your RNG
schemas so that the RNG namespace is the* default *namespace
— both empty and not defined. See known issues.*

    ./rng2txmt.sh schema.rng

Generates the language grammars schema.plist.xml and schema.plist in the
"Generated Language Grammars" repository.

Prerequisites
-------------

Everything should run directly on Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard. Developer Tools might
need to be installed.

* `xsltproc` (compiled with `exslt` support)
* `plutil`
* a `sh` compatible shell

Current features
----------------

What it currently does. Not much.

* look for and mark invalid tags or attributes under or in a given tag
* avoid to create empty repository entries
* give a tag-aware scope for attributes (aim is to generate auto-completion
lists aside)

Expected features
-----------------

What I would like it to do at some point in a not-so-far future.

* improve scope definitions
* **(in progress)** have parent-tag-aware scopes for auto-completion of tags, i.e.
    
    `<a> <b/> </a> <!-- b is in a scope related to a -->`
    
    `<b attr="value" /> <!-- attribute is in a scope related to b -->`
* actually generate completion list.
* have basic namespace support

Known issues
------------

Issues which are not on considered a priority or currently seem unavoidable.

* TextMate language grammars are deterministic. I thus don’t think it’s
possible to generate (exact) grammars from non-deterministic RNG schemas.
However, these are rare in real-life. In particular, both DTDs and
W3C XML Schemas always are deterministic.
* Dealing with XML namespace (especially default namespace) in XSLT
stylesheets is quite a mess. Currently, only the default namespace is dealt
with. Currently, one thus have to make edits
* No management of many RNG construction.
* No management of file reference.
* No indentation of the generated plist. TextMate can however indent results
by itself.
* Probably too many scopes.

Links
-----

* [Relax NG][rng], a schema language for XML
* [TextMate][], a text editor for Mac OS X
* [TextMate Language Grammars][gram], the documentation of
TextMate concerning language grammars
* [Trang][], a XML Schema and DTDs from/to RELAX NG converter

[rng]: http://www.relaxng.org/
[TextMate]: http://macromates.com/
[gram]: http://manual.macromates.com/en/language_grammars
[Trang]: http://code.google.com/p/jing-trang/
